# Preliminary 4: Functions and their ...
## The definition of a function
Let $A, B$ be two non empty sets. Function, $f:A \rightarrow B$, is a rule which takes each element in $A$ ... an element in $B$.
The set $A$ is called the [[domain set|domain]].
The set $B$ is called the [[codomain set|codomain]].
The set $\{ f(x):x \in A\}$ is called the [[range set|range]].
> Note! This is not a mathematically accurate definition, but it is sufficient for the things that will be learnt in the course.
### Illustration
#TODO
### Example
Let $A = [0,\infty) = \{x \in \mathbb{R}: 0 \leq x \lt \infty \}$ and $B = \mathbb{R}$.
Then with $f: A \rightarrow A$ and $f(x) = \sqrt{x}$ is a function.
Then with $g: B \rightarrow B$ and $g(x) = \sqrt{x}$ is not a function since $\sqrt{\mathbb{R}}$ includes complex numbers.
## Implied agreement of calculus
When a function does not have specified [[domain set|domain]] and [[codomain set|codomain]], it is implied that the [[domain set|domain]] is as large as possible and that the [[codomain set|codomain]] is the same as the [[range set|range]].
> Note! This was referred to as very important by the teacher.
### Example
If it written $f(x)=\sqrt{x}$, we assume that $A = [0,\infty)$ and and $B = [0,\infty)$.
## Even and odd functions
Not many functions are odd or even, but when they are they can be simplified significantly (according to teacher, no example was given).
### Definition
A function $f$ is:
1. Even, if $f(x) = f(-x)$ for all $x$ in the [[domain set|domain]] of $f$.
2. Odd, if $f(-x) = -f(x)$ for all $x$ in the [[domain set|domain]] of $f$.
### Example
Is $f(x) = |x|$ even, odd or neither?
#### Solution proposal
$$
\begin{cases}
f(-x) = |-x| = |-1 \times x| = |-1| \times |x| = |x|\\
f(x) = |x|\\
-f(x) = -|x|
\end{cases}
$$
From this we can discern that $f(x) = f(-x)$, i.e. that $f$ is an even function.
### Example
Is the following function even, odd or neither?
$$
f(x) = -|x|
$$
#### Solution proposal
$$
\begin{cases}
f(-x) = -|-x| = -|x|\\
f(x) = -|x|\\
-f(x) = -(-|x|) = |x|
\end{cases}
$$
From this we can discern that $f(x) = f(-x)$ for all $x \in \mathbb{R}$, i.e. $f$ is even.
### Example
Is $f(x) = x^3$ even, odd or neither?
#### Solution proposal
$f(-x) = (-x)^3 = -x^3$
$f(x) = x^3$
$-f(x) = -x^3$
For all $x \in \mathbb{R}$, $f(-x) = -f(x)$, meaning that the function $f$ is odd.
### Example
Let $f(x) = x + 1$, is $f$ odd, even or neither?
#### Solution proposal
$f(-x) = -x + 1$
$f(x) = x + 1$
$-f(x) = -(x + 1) = - x - 1$

$f$ is not even and not odd. This can be proven with:
$f(-1) = -1 + 1 = 0$
$f(1) = 1 + 1 = 2$
$-f(1) = -1 - 1 = -2$

$f(1) \neq f(-1)$ means that $f$ is not even and $f(1) \neq -f(1)$ means that it is not odd.